---
title: June 12th, 2021
---

- [[Desire]]
	 - [[Psalm 37]] - Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart.

	 - [[James 4]] - What causes fights and quarrels among you? Don't they come from your desires that battle within you?

	 - [[John 15]] - ...but I chose you and appointed you to go and bear fruit - fruit that will last. Then the Father will give you whatever you ask in my name. 

	 - When seeing the word Desire translated in NT (Greek), it's almost always used negatively. The Greek words can also be translated into "lust, loving oneself, passionate longing, or pleasure". This last one is greek "hedone", which is where we get our word Hedonism from. It's what is used in James 4. 

	 - When seeing it translated in the OT (Hebrew), it often comes from words that could also be translated "passion, having pleasure in, ask, request, petition, delight in, favor". For example, "mishalah", which is used in Psalm 37, can also be translated request or petition. 

	 - The major difference between the word Desire in James 4 is that it deals with sensual/emotional/top level desires -> desires meant to bring pleasure. In Psalm 37, it seams to be dealing with more base desires -> true desires of the heart. 
		 - There are 3 levels of desire
			 - Surface level -> Desire for Money, Lust, Power, Revenge, Control, Fit in
				 - These are often symptoms of a true heart level desire. However, if left to grow, they will consume the person. They will become their own Gods. They are what can create Evil and Hell.

				 - CS Lewis - “[[Hell]] begins with a grumbling mood, always complaining, always blaming others... but you are still distinct from it. You may even criticize it in yourself and wish you could stop it. But there may come a day when you can no longer. Then there will be no you left to criticize the mood or even to enjoy it, but just the grumble itself, going on forever like a machine. It is not a question of God "sending us" to hell. In each of us there is something growing, which will BE hell unless it is nipped in the bud. ”

			 - Heart level -> Security, Companionship, Justice, Love, Relationship Healing (Father, Daughter, Friend), Purpose
				 - The holes in our being. Our True Desires.

			 - Spirt level -> What we were created for. Oneness with God
				 - What our Heart level desires point to. Only God can truly and permanently fill this hole.

				 - John 15 - Vine and Branches

				 - CS Lewis - “Creatures are not born with desires unless satisfaction for those desires exists. A baby feels hunger: well, there is such a thing as food. A duckling wants to swim: well, there is such a thing as water. Men feel sexual desire: well, there is such a thing as sex. If I find in myself a desire which no experience in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that I was made for another world. If none of my earthly pleasures satisfy it, that does not prove that the universe is a fraud. Probably earthly pleasures were never meant to satisfy it, but only to arouse it, to suggest the real thing. If that is so, I must take care, on the one hand, never to despise, or be unthankful for, these earthly blessings, and on the other, never to mistake them for the something else of which they are only a kind of copy, or echo, or mirage. I must keep alive in myself the desire for my true country, which I shall not find until after death; I must never let it get snowed under or turned aside; I must make it the main object of life to press on to that other country and to help others do the same.”
