---
title: August 9th, 2021
---

- What is [[Terra Blockchain]]
	 - Smart Contract enabled Blockchain by Terraform Labs powering daps and cryptocurrencies
		 - One Cryptocurrency is stablecoin Terra U.S. Dollar, or UST. Pegged to US Dollar via algorithm. Also has other stablecoins, like KRWT (Korean Won)

		 - Limited number of nodes, less decentralized. Cap of 100 validators

		 - Created on Cosmos software Development kit (SDK), uses Tendermint Proof-of-Stake consensus mechanism

		 - Terra Console: https://terra.flipsidecrypto.com/

		 - https://www.stakingrewards.com/earn/terra?page=1&sort=stakingReward_DESC

	 - Terraform Labs
		 - Founded in 2018 by Daniel Shin (CEO of Chai online payment) and Kwon (CEO) 29yr old former Microsoft employee

		 - Incubated by Terra Alliance, group of 15 eCommerce companies based in East Asia

		 - Does not make money from transactions, relies on outside funding. 

		 - Plans to use Terra blockchain to create a digital financial system independent of banks and fintech-app makers

		 - Main source of growth in Korea, using the Chai payment app

	 - UST
		 - UST is a stablecoin

		 - To mint new UST, a percent of another digital token and reserve asset [[Luna]] is burned

		 - If demand for UST rises, more Luna will be burned and diverted to a community pool. This is supposed to stabilize the price. 

		 - “Luna directly benefits from the economic growth of the Terra economy, and it suffers from contractions of the Terra coin,” Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon said.

		 - Each time someone buys something using UST, the transaction generates a fee (similar to a credit card). The fee is distributed to people staking Luna, similar to a stock dividend.

		 - When UST price goes up, incentivizes more to be printed. When LUNA is printed to UST, a certain percentage is burned (creating deflation), and the rest piles up in a community pool. Process is called Seigniorage.
			 - Community pool funds are invested to create more apps that use UST.

		 - When UST price goes down, UST can be sold for LUNA, making profit and bringing UST back to $1. 

		 - View current Luna/UST stats here: https://terra.smartstake.io/history

	 - Luna
		 - Private Sale -> 10% reserved future development, 20% for project employees, 20% for Terra Alliance, 20% price stability reserves, 26% project backers, 4% genesis liquidity

		 - Provides governance

		 - Betting that UST will be become more useful in the future. Assuming risk of price volatility 

		 - If a LUNA holder chooses to stake, they can earn transaction fees for UST usage.

	 - Resources:
		 - https://medium.com/everstake/terra-ecosystem-overview-a-guide-for-newcomers-1d52b717c429

- What is [[Anchor Protocal]]
	 - dApp on Terra blockchain serving as a money market between lenders and borrows of stablecoins. Lender can deposit stablecoins and earn interest, and borrow can borrow stablecoins by providing a stakable asset as collateral. 
		 - Stakeable assets are regarded as bonded assets, such as bLUNA, bETH

		 - Bonded asset is locked up, and UST is borrowed against it at an LTV ratio defined by the protocal. 

		 - Staking rewards earned on bLUNA by borrowers are liquidated by the protocal into UST for depositors

	 - Anchor Token (ANC) is governance token, and captures a portion of Anchors yield, so scales linearly with Anchors Assets under Management 
		 - Anchor Dashboard: https://anchorprotocol.com/dashboard

	 - Yield is generated by "block rewards of major PoS blockchains", via Anchor lending out deposits to borrowers wo "put down liquid-staked PoS assets from major blockchains as collateral" 

	 - Anchor Rate provides stable interest rate target. Calculated as avg of yields earned by borrowers "weighted by the collateral value backing of each yield."

	 - Use Liquid Luna (bLUNA)
		 - Liquid Staking - Taking a derivative of another token. So Stake a LUNA, get a bLUNA to move around (remains liquid). So staking the token with a validator, and the derivative (bLUNA) can be moved, transfer ownership, or used as collateral

		 - bLUNA is provided by LidoDAO

	 - Borrowers in Anchor use their liquid staking derivative (bLuna) to lock up as collateral in order to borrow TerraUSD (UST). Because the bLuna earns staking rewards and is being used as collateral by borrowers, Anchor protocol is able to liquidate the collateral’s rewards being earned on bLuna by borrowers into UST for depositors. Essentially, Anchor protocol passes on staking derivative cash-flows from borrowers, liquidates the cash-flows into UST and transfers the UST cash-flows onto depositors, to earn them the target yield (20% APY as of time of writing).

	 - How? 
		 - Deposit UST onto the protocal. Earn 20%

		 - Borrow UST by providing bLUNA as collateral. Reward in ANC tokens is higher that than the interest of loan. View NET APR here: https://app.anchorprotocol.com/borrow

		 - Stake ANC to earn staking rewards. APR here: https://app.anchorprotocol.com/gov

		 - Provide Liquidity for ANC by staking ANC-UST LP tokens. APR here: https://app.anchorprotocol.com/gov

	 - Risk:
		 - Borrowing and Loan Liquidation (Value of collateral falls below the value of the loan). Recommended to borrow at LTV ratio of 35% or even lower.

	 - Resources:
		 - https://medium.com/everstake/anchor-protocol-for-beginners-how-to-get-started-5b19f54ced6d

		 - https://docs.anchorprotocol.com/
