---
title: March 16th, 2021
---

- [[Bible Project]] podcast on [[Heaven]] (Heaven and Earth) from Feb 2016
	 - [[Eden]] was the place where God's Realm and Earth met. Heaven and Earth overlapped.
		 - Humans separated Heaven from Earth. 

	 - After [[Eden]] the [[Temple]] took that spot. It is the spot where Heaven and Earth overlap.
		 - Animal sacrifice somehow absorbs the [[sin]] and allows humans to enter

	 - After the [[Temple]] [[Jesus]] was the manifestation of Heaven touching Earth (The point where God's realm and Earth join)
		 - Jesus is both the temple, and the cross is the sacrifice absorbing sin.

	 - Then in the [[Penticost]], Humans are shown in that temple imagery. Christians and the Church are now the meeting point between Heaven and Earth, the place where God dwells.
		 - The Story of the [[New Testament]] is the story of Heaven slowly taking over Earth, one person, family, community at a time

		 - The [[Lords Prayer]] (which possibly Jesus meant for us to be a shema, prayer every day). "May your heavenly rule come down". Continuous reminder that we are mini temples

		 - Our body is a temple. Think of the holiness and glory of the temple. We are a mini unit of that. [[Cherubim]] were protecting Eden, and the Temple. People died if they didn't show respect. Intense and full of Gravity. We are an extension of God's presence on the world. 

	 - In [[Revelation]] Heaven and Earth are again joined, this time in a City based off Eden.

	 - https://bibleproject.com/explore/video/heaven-and-earth/

- [[Tim Keller]] sermons (Gospel in Life Podcast) from March 10 2021
	 - [[Sermon on the Mount]]

	 - [[Salt]] not not primarily meant as a seasoning, but as a preservation agent. [[Salt and Light]]. If you see someones life falling apart, you don't run away, you run in. You preserve. 

	 - If the seeds that grow into [[murder]]... If murder is wrong, then the seeds are wrong. Treating people without disdain or casualness 

	 - Everything you say should be [[truthful]]. No need for owths

	 - When you [[give]] to the poor, don't tell yourself about it. Your attitude is important, in no way looking down on them or up on yourself. 

	 - Go into closet and pray... When you are [[alone]] where does your heart go? Do you think about God. Whatever you think about in your private time is your real God. A deep pray life is a sign that God is the center of your life

	 - Store up [[treasures]]... Where do you spend your [[money]] most easily, that is where your storehouse is. Where you spend money shows the center of your life.

	 - Don't [[worry]]. Love and [[trust]] God so much you don't have worry. Inordinate or painful worry is a sign of [[Pride]]. It shows you think you know how your life should go, and God's not going to get it right. It shows where you real God is.

	 - [[Judge]] not. Or.. To give criticism without love.

	 - If you live like this in any way, you will be the [[light]] of the world

	 - The Sermon on the mount exposes us. Should show us how far we are from the kingdom ideal. 

	 - The [[Beatitudes]] show what a Christian is. The kind of person we need to be before we can do what the sermon is.
		 - [[Mourn]] in spirit (because of poverty in spirit). Repent

		 - [[Meek]] totally dependent on God

		 - [[Hunger]] and thirst for Righteousness. The Rest of the sermon show what that looks like

		 - [[Blessed]] means "To be favored and envied". What it meant throughout the OT. The beatitudes point to a hero. The hero is Jesus, everything in them show toward him.

	 - If you are [[Salt]] and [[Light]] you will be hurt [[persecuted]]
		 - Salt is preservation. It means we will be involved in the world. We will preserve it.

		 - Light exposes falsehood. It is [[truth]]. Light of the world means to be a [[counterculture]]. All the rest of the sermon on the mount shows what that means. We should shine by being completely different.

		 - If we act like this we will experience [[persecution]]. Not blessed IF you are persecuted, but WHEN. Persecution because of Jesus, not because of US. Not because you are a meddler, or obnoxious. Some people will really be attracted by your life. If you get some pushback and challenge others, but also people are attracted to you because of the love you show, that means you are in the sweet spot. Not persecuted for our own character flaws
			 - Don't wine about it. Expect it. You are a prophet. You are speaking truth to power. The prophets have always been treated like this. No self pity if you identify with Christ and experience persecution because you live [[differently ]]
